# Documentation

This app creates new instances of cats in the api (`api/v1/cat`) which can be retrieved, updated, or deleted.

### Necessary Dependencies
- Babel (babel-eslint 8.2.3, babel-preset-env 1.6.1, babel-register 6.26.0)

  "devDependencies": {
    "eslint": "^4.19.1",
    "eslint-config-airbnb-base": "^12.1.0",
    "eslint-plugin-import": "^2.11.0",
    "eslint-plugin-jest": "^21.15.1",
    "jest": "^22.4.3",
    "superagent": "^3.8.2"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "dotenv": "^5.0.1",
    "uuid": "^3.2.1",
    "winston": "^3.0.0-rc5"
  }

### Classes
`class Router` : Instantiates a new Router with the property `routes` which in turn has properties for `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, and `DELETE` routes. This class also has the following prototypes (first four prototypes have arity of 2 and take in the route and a callback function)
  - `Router.prototype.get` : Creates a new `get` route property and assigns a function as its value.
  - `Router.prototype.post` : Creates a new `post` route property and assigns a function as its value.
  - `Router.prototype.put` : Creates a new `put` route property and assigns a function as its value.
  - `Router.prototype.delete` : Creates a new `delete` route property and assigns a function as its value.
  - `Router.prototype.route` : Handles the `bodyParser` and `urlParser` promise resolutions and calls the function at the designated route.
    - Arity of 0
  
 `class Cat` : Instantiates a new Cat object with the properties `name` (created by user), `favoriteFood` (created by user), and `id` (generated from `uuid` node module).

### Cat Route Methods
`router.post(/api/v1/cat)` : An instance of a Router constructor prototype method. Creates a new Cat object using the request object passed in, calls the `storage.create` function, then writes the response headers.

`router.get(/api/v1/cat?id=<id>)` : An instance of a Router constructor prototype method. Calls the `storage.fetchOne` method at `<id>` and writes the response headers.

`router.get(/api/v1/cats)` : An instance of a Router constructor prototype method. Calls the `storage.fetchAll` method, returns an array of IDs of all existing Cat objects in the API, and writes the response headers.

`router.put(/api/v1/cat)` : An instance of a Router constructor prototype method. Calls the `storage.update` function and writes the response headers.

`router.delete(/api/v1/cat?id=<id>)` : An instance of a Router constructor prototype method. Calls and `storage.delete` function and and writes the response headers.

### Parsing Methods
`bodyParser`: Takes in the request object and, if the request method is not POST or PUT, uses the `body-parser` node module to parse out the body and returns the `JSON.parse`-d message that was retrieved from the API.
- Arity of 1 <br/>

`urlParser`: Takes in the request object and uses the `querystring` node module to parse out the query string into all defined properties and set them to their corresponding key-value pairs.
- Arity of 1

### Server Methods
`server.start(port, callback)` : This will call the app.listen() function at the designated port and return a callback.
- Arity of 2

`server.stop(callback)` : This will call the app.close() function and return a callback.
- Arity of 1


### Storage Methods
These method all return Promises.

`storage.create(schema, item)`: Takes in the schema (ex. 'Cat') and will check to determine that the schema exists in memory. If it does, it will create an item with the id generated by the instantiation of a new Cat.
- Arity of 2

`storage.fetchOne(schema, id)`: Takes in the schema (ex. 'Cat') and the id and returns the Cat at that id from memory. Will check that schema and id exist.
- Arity of 2

`storage.fetchAll(schema)`: Takes in the schema (ex. 'Cat') and returns the entire schema object retrieved from memory. Will check that the schema exists.
- Arity of 1

`storage.update(schema, id, name, favoriteFood)`: Takes in the schema (ex. 'Cat'), id, name, and favoriteFood, updates the object at that id in the API, and returns it. Will check that schema and id exist.
- Arity of 4

`storage.delete(schema, id)`: Takes in the schema (ex. 'Cat') and the id and deletes the cat at that id from the API. Returns an empty object.
- Arity of 2

### ResWrite Method

This is a custom helper function that will handle writing response headers.

`resWrite(res, statusCode, contentType, body)`

This function accomplishes the equivalent of:

`res.writeHead(<statusCode>, { 'Content-Type' : '<contentType>' });`

`res.write(body);`

`res.end();`
- Arity of 4
